# Jenchmark

Jenchmark is a super simple (and absolutely thread-unsafe) benchmarking library for Java based on reflection and metadata. The framework by default
benchmarks the whole method. However, it supports checkpointing for measuring the performance of specific sections
within each method.

I hope you will like this lil-project made during a boring afternoon 🥱. Should you have any comments or suggestions
feel free to open a PR.

_Jenchmark has been created while experimenting with framework design and is not meant to be used in a production
environment. In addition, it doesn't have a super refined design because it was built during a continuous stream of ideas (e.g., exceptions are not handled, some parts require better abstractions, monotonic clocks should be used, thread-safety should be implemented)._

# Sample usage

## 1. Define `class` to be benchmarked

* The annotation `@Benchmark` specifies that we want to benchmark this class. It requires the name of the benchmark and
  optionally the generator used to automatically inject values for methods.
* The annotation `@InjectCheckpointer` specifies that we want to have access to a `Checkpointer` in this class.
  The `Checkpointer` is used to checkpoint the function in specific places.

In case you are using the checkpointer, you **must** have a constructor accepting a `Checkpointer` implementation.

```java

@Benchmark(name = "TestBenchmark", fallbackGenerator = BaseGenerator.class)
@InjectCheckpointer(checkpointer = BenchmarkEngine.EngineCheckpointer.class)
public class TestBenchmark {

    private final Checkpointer checkpointer;

    public TestBenchmark(Checkpointer checkpointer) {
        this.checkpointer = checkpointer;
    }
}
```

## 2. Define generator(s) (only if needed)

If you are using generated params then you can either use the `BaseGenerator` which supports primitive types and Strings
or you can build your own by implementing the `BenchmarkGenerator` interface.

```java
public class MyGenerator implements BenchmarkGenerator {

    @Override
    public boolean supports(Class<?> clazz) {
        return true;
    }

    @Override
    public Object generateValueFor(Class<?> clazz) {
        throw new RuntimeException("Couldn't find a generator for Class<" + clazz + ">");
    }
}
```

In addition, Jenchmark provides two other generators respectively `FallbackGenerator` and `VoidGenerator`. Their
implementation is strictly meaningful for the framework internals, therefore their usage is discouraged.

## 3. Define methods

You can either define a simple method with no annotations or use the `@BenchmarkParam` annotation to specify that you
want parameters automatically injected by the generator.

```java
public void webPlusDb() throws InterruptedException {
    Thread.sleep(1000);
    checkpointer.onCheckpoint("Web request");

    Thread.sleep(500);
    checkpointer.onCheckpoint("Database query");
}
```

It is important to note that **the order of the annotations must match the order of the parameters**. In addition, all
the parameters must be annotated because for now
the framework doesn't support hybrid parameters.

Besides the type, you can also specify a custom generator for each specific parameter which could be helpful when you
want a different value.

```java
@BenchmarkParam(type = Long.class)
@BenchmarkParam(type = Long.class, generator = MyGenerator.class)
public void webPlusDbParams(long webDelay,long dbDelay) throws InterruptedException{
    Thread.sleep(webDelay);
    checkpointer.onCheckpoint("Web request");

    Thread.sleep(dbDelay);
    checkpointer.onCheckpoint("Database query");
}
```

## 4. Define the benchmark

You can build a `Benchmark` via the `BenchmarkBuilder` which will make the whole process as simple as it gets.

A `Benchmark` is built by the following methods:

* `of`: class that we want to benchmark.
* `method`: name of the method we want to benchmark, together with the types of its parameters (useful in case of method
  overloading).
* `withParams`: pass the params to be injected into the method.
* `withGenerator`: specify to inject the params generated by the generator.
* `repeat`: execute the benchmark method a number of times. This is useful when you are testing non-deterministic
  functions with side effects.
* `pause`: pause for a number of ms. This is useful when the system's performance is impacted by the execution's
  behavior.
* `build`: create the benchmark.

In order to execute a benchmark you will need to initiate the `BenchmarkEngine` and call the `benchmark` method by
passing the `Benchmark` instance. This design decision to lazily evaluate benchmarks was done in order to allow the
definition of benchmarks independently of their execution.

```java
BenchmarkEngine engine = new BenchmarkEngine();

Benchmark<TestBenchmark> benchmark = new BenchmarkBuilder<TestBenchmark>()
  .of(TestBenchmark.class)
  .method("webPlusDb")
  .withParams()
  .repeat(1)
  .pause(1000)
  .repeat(1)
  .build();

BenchmarkResult<TestBenchmark> result = engine.benchmark(benchmark);
```

The execution of the benchmark will return a `BenchmarkResult` which will contain all the measurements and the details
of the benchmark.